# Recursive_Bootstrap_Collapse
This project demonstrates the limitations created by models that use the recursive bootstrap. It includes the creation of a synthetic dataset and applying repeated iterations of the recursive bootstrap to illustrate the collapse caused by this method

# The Bootstrap
Bootstrapping is a resampling technique where a dataset is repeatedly sampled with replacement from the original dataset to create multiple bootstrapped samples. It works as variances computed under the bootstrap, or empirical distribution, are good approximations of variances computed under the true data. This method is used when the theoretical distribution of an estimator is complex or unknown. The basic bootstrap involves resampling, computing replicates, and estimating the sampling distribution. Uses of the bootstrap are estimation of standard error, construction of confidence intervals, normal approximation intervals, and percentile intervals. Bootstrap methods have the asymptotic properties of consistency, since the bootstrap distribution converges to the true sampling distribution, and second order accuracy as bootstrap confidence intervals often have higher accuracy in comparison to traditional methods especially for smaller samples.
# The Recursive Bootstrap
The recursive bootstrap is a bootstrapping technique where resampling with replacement is applied repeatedly with a recursive framework. This applies the technique multiple times, which can increase the stability or accuracy of a model.This form of data manipulation is used by various artificial intelligence algorithms. The recursive bootstrap has been used in structure learning of Bayesian networks. The bootstrap method is used to estimate uncertainty in the structure; however, the recursive bootstrap goes further by repeatedly resampling the data. This stabilizes structure learning. The recursive bootstrap is being introduced to artificial general intelligence models to improve recursive learning abilities and long-term stability in neural networks. A form of Fractal Flux Bootstrap Time Spiral was introduced as a form of neural network that evolves recursively with bootstrap causality (however, this model uses fractal complexity to prevent model collapse).
# Significance
Recursive bootstrapping destroys information over time, leading to decay in quality of returned data. Thus, this project demonstrates that models and neural networks, which use recursive bootstrapping can iteratively cause datasets to lose diversity. So when creating a neural network based off recursive bootstrap techniques it must be used in combination with methods that can reintroduce variance to the system. Along with this, algorithms based in the recursive bootstrap will change properties of the initial dataset.
